Solutions for Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Learn More Threats Threats Categories Categories Other sections Kaspersky Security Bulletin While the CrowdStrike incident is still fresh in our minds, Kaspersky experts look back on similar IT outages that happened in 2024 and predict potential threats for 2025. Vulnerability reports Software APT reports Kaspersky Security Bulletin Malware descriptions Kaspersky Security Bulletin Threat intelligence and IR Technologies and services Cyberthreat talks Trainings and workshops Register to Access All Kaspersky Webinars Publications Kaspersky experts share their insights into cyberthreats that face online shoppers in 2024 phishing, banking trojans, fake shopping apps and Black Friday sales on the dark web data market. Kaspersky Security Bulletin Kasperskys Global Research and Analysis Team monitors over 900 APT Advanced Persistent Threat groups and operations. In this piece of KSB series, we review the advanced threat trends from the past year and offer insights into what we can expect in 2025. The report features the most significant developments relating to APT groups in Q3 2024, including hacktivist activity, new APT tools and campaigns. Kaspersky analyzes SideWinder APTs recent activity new targets in the MiddleEast and Africa, postexploitation tools and techniques. Kaspersky shares insights into the activity and TTPs of the BlindEagle APT, which targets organizations and individuals in Colombia, Ecuador, Chile, Panama and other Latin American countries. Kaspersky has identified a new EastWind campaign targeting Russian organizations and using CloudSorcerer as well as APT31 and APT27 tools. The hottest research right in your inbox Δ Threats Threats Categories Categories Other sections 2024 AO Kaspersky Lab. All Rights Reserved. Registered trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. The hottest research right in your inbox Δ