Title: Leading Security Experts | Trend Micro
URL: https://www.trendmicro.com/en_in/about/leading-experts.html
Published Date: None



Greg’s focus is enterprise-class security. He is keen on sharing the reality of security in larger organisations and how business can be done securely in those environments. As research vice president with Gartner for 13 years Greg advised thousands of companies and governments on how to better secure themselves, evaluated and advised hundreds of security vendors, and has seen those same technologies successfully used, abused, put on a shelf, or pushed into a deep hole, never to be spoken of again.

At Gartner he led research for network security, threat trends, data centre security, cloud netsec and microsegmentation. He authored more than 20 Magic Quadrants for firewall, IPS, WAF, and UTM, and was Conference Chair for 4 Security Summits. Greg headed several large security consulting practices, was CISO for the Department of Communications, and served as chief security architect for a security product company. He was a commissioned officer in the military police and counterintelligence branch working as a certifier/accreditor at the national authority and received the Confederation Medal from the Governor General of Canada for his work with smart card security.

Greg was named in the “12 Most Powerful Security Companies” and as one of “100 Most Powerful Voices in Worldwide Security.” And, as he mentions too often, Greg was an extra in 2 episodes of Airwolf.



Experience: 35 years in cybersecurity

35 years in cybersecurity Specialties: Securing networks, architectures, and data



If you want to learn about the latest trends and insights in the business security sector, tune in to Greg's bi-weekly Webcast, Trend Talks BizSec, where he and co-host Jon Clay share their expert opinions. You can also catch him on the Real Cyber Security Podcast, where he discusses the business of technology security.



Chat with Greg on LinkedIn: GregYoung and X via @OrangeKlaxon